Let's talk about this better design
process, my magic design process that I've
been building up for
the best part of 40 minutes, right?
[LAUGH] Really ought to get to the point,
Paul.
First of all,
I split my projects into multiple phases.
Phase one is discovery, okay?
We do a short discovery phase upfront to
understand the project better before we
jump in.
Phase two is prototyping,
where we visualize the experience
from beginning to end, okay?
Phase three is the build, where the
developers take the design and build it.
And then and
phase four is while the website is live.
I will talk about these phases,
okay, all the time,
from the moment I start
working with a client.
And there is huge benefit to working
in these phases because not only
does it ensure the design is appropriate,
it will also deal with scope creep.
It will also manage the iteration process.
And if you're an external person,
it will lead to long-term
work during the live phase.
And if you're internal, it gets your
stakeholders to think how they're
gonna manage this digital
service once it goes live.
Now, the key component here is this.
Each phase is a separate project
that defines the next, right?
We have a tendency of going in and
thinking about these
big projects as single
monolithic projects, right?
We're gonna redesign
the website from top to bottom.
That is a ridiculously big
project to plan, right?
Even if you work with smaller clients and
it's a relatively small project,
for them proportionally,
the investment is big, right?
So it's all about the level of investment
and the level of associated risk.
And let's be honest,
if I said to you, okay,
we've got a WordPress site that's got,
I don't know, 20 templates and
some basic functionality like
contact us and a few other things.
And ask you to provide me with
a fixed price, you could do it,
but it probably won't be that
accurate in reality, right?
Because what'll happen is, well,
actually, when we said we've got some
basic functionality, that includes
an events capability, I didn't know that.
So there's a lot of amorphous stuff.
It's very hard to accurately
price any project, and
the bigger the project gets,
the harder it is.
By splitting it into these phases and
having each one as a separate engagement,
a separate project,
then in the discovery phase you can learn
enough to define how long it
will take you to prototype.
Not the whole rest of it, but
just that next phase, the prototype phase.
When you finish the prototype phase,
you can hand the prototype to
the developer and go, we wanna build that,
how long will it take to do?
And that is a hell of a lot easier
to cost than some functional
specification where it's easy to
misunderstand and stuff like that.
So that will inform how
long the build will take.
Once you've done the build, you'll be
in a good position to know what kind of
optimization post-launch needs to be done.
So don't go for these big projects,
break them down into distinct sections.
So let's very quickly look at the benefits
of taking this kind of approach, for
our stakeholders and
our clients' initially.
First of all, it reduces the risk, right?
The client, if you're working
with somebody external, or
you are external working for
clients, then it's a great way for
them to try out the working
relationship with you, right?
So let's say I was hiring you
guys in the room here, right?
And each of you represented a different
agency, and it was a redesign project.
You come back with 50 grand for
the project,
you came back with 56 grand,
you came back with 47 grand.
And then the final person came back with
five grand for a discovery phase, okay?
The level of risk of going with you
other people is 50 grand, right?
And if I work with you and I don't like
you, right, or there's a problem in
the working relationship, I'm committed to
50 grand or 47 or whatever it was, right?
But if I go with the final person,
that's only gonna charge me five grand for
the first part of the project,
then my risk is much lower.
If I don't like them, if they don't
deliver, if they annoy me, right?
I just get rid of them.
So it's a really good way of
reducing risk when it comes
to talking about working
with external agencies.
But it's also good for just the overall
risk of the project, right?
Because each phase validates
the validity of the next, right?
So the discovery phase basically goes,
is it worth pursuing this or
are we gonna launch it and
it's gonna be crap, right?
Or is the technology
gonna be too difficult?
Are there gonna be compliance barriers
that can stop this project happening?
All of those wrinkles, right?
And if it passes the discovery phase,
if it turns out to be valid,
it goes into the prototyping phase.
And the prototyping phase
will work out whether or
not it's gonna be accepted by
users through usability testing.
And if it's not and needs to change, we
can change it there in the prototype when
it's cheap rather than once it's gone
live, when it's expensive to do so.
So it manages risks there.
So basically, by breaking it down,
you can validate each stage
without committing to one large and
potentially flawed project.
The second is it provides
much more accurate costings.
Because each phase is fully costed,
they can be much more accurate, right?
So you can be much more controlled
because you're just costing
the current stage rather
than the whole thing.
And that means it's easier
to allocate resources,
it's less overspending,
that kind of thing.
And then finally it reduces failure,
right?
Because the project is broken into
self-contained phases, if you like,
then each one is gonna be well researched,
well considered.
And the chances of building something
that doesn't generate return
on investment will reduce significantly
because you're validating as you go along.
So let's look at those
different phases very quickly,
what they are and how to run them.